README.md, before:

https://github.com/cupertank implemented essential data structures presented in src/model, src/parser, src/tests and src/util

# Installation guide
This project supports installation with and without a web application. 
In the second case, to build the project, you also need to have dependencies that are specified for installation without a web application. 

## Installation (without web application)
* ### Ubuntu
  The following instructions were tested on Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS.
  #### Dependencies
  Prior to cloning the repository and attempting to build the project, ensure that you have the following software:

  - GNU g++ compiler, version 10+
  - CMake, version 3.13+
  - Boost library, version 1.72.0+

  #### Building the project
  Firstly, navigate to a desired directory.
  Then, clone the repository, cd into the project directory and launch the build script:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/
  cd Desbordante
  ./build.sh
  ```
  #### Launching the binaries
  The script generates the following file structure in `/path/to/Desbordante/build/target`:
  ```bash
  ├───inputData
  │   └───some-sample-csvs.csv
  ├───Desbordante_test
  ├───Desbordante_run
  ```
  The `inputData` directory contains several .csv files that may be used by `Desbordante_test`. Run `Desbordante_test` to perform unit testing:
  ```
  cd build/target
  ./Desbordante_test
  ```
  The tool itself is launched via the following line:
  ```
  ./Desbordante_run --algo=tane --data=<dataset_name>.csv
  ```

  The `<dataset_name>.csv`, which is a user-provided dataset, should be placed in the `/path/to/Desbordante/build/target` directory.

* ### Windows
  The following instructions were tested on Windows 10 .
  #### Dependencies
  Prior to cloning the repository and attempting to build the project, ensure that you have the following software:

  - Microsoft Visual Studio 2019
  - CMake, version 3.13+
  - Boost library, version 1.65.1+ \
    The recommended way to install Boost is by using [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/)

  #### Building the project
  Firstly, launch the command prompt and navigate to a desired directory.
  Then, clone the repository, cd into the project directory and launch the build script:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/
  cd Desbordante
  git checkout windows-compatible
  build.bat
  ```
  *Note:* to compile the project, the script uses hard-coded path to MSVC developer command prompt, which is located
  by default at `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\Common7\Tools\VsDevCmd.bat`.
  You should change the path in the script if it differs from the default one.
  #### Launching the binaries
  The script generates the following file structure in `\path\to\Desbordante\build\target`:
  ```bash
  ├───inputData
  │   └───some-sample-csv's.csv
  ├───Desbordante_test.exe
  ├───Desbordante_run.exe
  ```
  The `inputData` directory contains several .csv files that may be used by `Desbordante_test`. Run `Desbordante_test` to perform unit testing:
  ```
  cd build\target
  Desbordante_test.exe
  ```
  The tool itself is launched via the following line:
  ```
  Desbordante_run.exe --algo=tane --data=<dataset_name>.csv
  ```

  The `<dataset_name>.csv`, which is a user-provided dataset, should be placed in the `\path\to\Desbordante\build\target` directory.

## Installation (with web application)

Currently, you can build this part of the project only on the operating system Ubuntu. 
The following instructions were tested on Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS.

The web application requires the following components:
1) DBMS
2) Message Broker
3) Web-Client and Web-Server
4) Consumer (for Message Broker)

* ### DBMS
  You need to install `PostgreSQL`.

  After installation, do the following steps:
  - Create a PostgreSQL role with ability to create databases. You can achive this by executing the following commands:
  ```
  sudo -i -u postgres
  psql postgres
  $ CREATE USER your_username WITH CREATEDB ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your_password'
  $ ALTER USER your_username WITH PASSWORD 'your_password'
  ```
  - Make changes to the appropriate config files (`/path/to/Desbordante/web-app/server/.env` and `/path/to/Desbordante/cfg/db_config.json`)

* ### Message Broker
  You need to install `docker-compose`.

  After installation, write the following line:
  ```
  cd web-app/kafka-server
  sudo docker-compose up
  ```

* ### Web-Client and Web-Server
  Firstly, you need to install package manager `yarn`:
  ```
  sudo apt install yarnpkg
  ```
  Then you need to install all dependencies for web-server and web-client:
  
  ```
  cd web-app/server
  yarnpkg
  cd ../client
  yarnpkg
  ```
* ### Consumer
Ensure that you have installed the dependencies required to build the program without a web application. Then you need to install the following dependencies:

  - libpqxx:
  ```
  sudo apt-get install libpqxx-dev
  ```
  - librdkafka:
  ```
  sudo apt-get install librdkafka-dev
  ```
  - cppKafka:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/mfontanini/cppkafka.git
  cd cppkafka
  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake ..
  make
  sudo make install
  ```
#### Building
  Cd into the project directory and launch the build script with the flag to build the consumer:
  ```
  cd Desbordante
  ./build.sh -c
  ```
  The script generates the following file structure in `/path/to/Desbordante/build/target`:
  ```bash
  ├───...
  ├───Desbordante_kafka_consumer
  ```
* ### Launching the web application
  Firstly, you need to run kafka server:
  ```
  cd web-app/kafka-server
  sudo docker-compose up
  ```
  Note: if an error occurred while trying to start the server, then enter 
  ```
  sudo docker-compose down
  ```
  Secondly, you need to run web-server:
  ```
  cd web-app/server 
  yarnpkg dev
  ```
  and web-client:
  ```
  cd web-app/client
  yarnpkg start
  ```
  Then, it remains to start the consumer:
  ```
  cd build/target
  ./Desbordante_kafka_consumer
  ```
# Developers

Kirill Stupakov     &mdash; Client side of the web application

Anton Chizhov       &mdash; Server side of the web application

Alexandr Smirnov    &mdash; DFD implementation

Ilya Shchuckin      &mdash; FD_Mine implementation

Michael Polyntsov   &mdash; FastFDs implementation

Ilya Vologin        &mdash; core classes

Maxim Strutovsky    &mdash; team lead, Pyro & TANE implementation

Nikita Bobrov       &mdash; product owner, consult, papers

Kirill Smirnov      &mdash; product owner, code quality, infrastructure, consult

George Chernishev   &mdash; product owner, consult, papers

# Cite

If you use this software for research, please cite the paper (https://fruct.org/publications/fruct29/files/Strut.pdf, https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9435469) as follows:

M. Strutovskiy, N. Bobrov, K. Smirnov and G. Chernishev, "Desbordante: a Framework for Exploring Limits of Dependency Discovery Algorithms," 2021 29th Conference of Open Innovations Association (FRUCT), 2021, pp. 344-354, doi: 10.23919/FRUCT52173.2021.9435469.

# Contacts

[Email me at strutovsky.m.a@gmail.com](mailto:strutovsky.m.a@gmail.com)

Commit message:

Fix & Add: Deleted API documentation, added typescript for web-server, code refactored.
I tried using swagger to generate documentation for REST API. It turned
out to be not very convenient both in terms of documentaion generation
and in terms of the interface for interacting with it.
To improve the development convenience has been added typescript. Now,
to start web-server you need to compile .ts files into .js files, then
start web-server. To do this you need to write commands yarn build and
yarn start. For development you can use command yarn dev.

README.md, after:

https://github.com/cupertank implemented essential data structures presented in src/model, src/parser, src/tests and src/util

# Installation guide
This project supports installation with and without a web application. 
In the second case, to build the project, you also need to have dependencies that are specified for installation without a web application. 

## Installation (without web application)
* ### Ubuntu
  The following instructions were tested on Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS.
  #### Dependencies
  Prior to cloning the repository and attempting to build the project, ensure that you have the following software:

  - GNU g++ compiler, version 10+
  - CMake, version 3.13+
  - Boost library, version 1.72.0+

  #### Building the project
  Firstly, navigate to a desired directory.
  Then, clone the repository, cd into the project directory and launch the build script:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/
  cd Desbordante
  ./build.sh
  ```
  #### Launching the binaries
  The script generates the following file structure in `/path/to/Desbordante/build/target`:
  ```bash
  ├───inputData
  │   └───some-sample-csvs.csv
  ├───Desbordante_test
  ├───Desbordante_run
  ```
  The `inputData` directory contains several .csv files that may be used by `Desbordante_test`. Run `Desbordante_test` to perform unit testing:
  ```
  cd build/target
  ./Desbordante_test
  ```
  The tool itself is launched via the following line:
  ```
  ./Desbordante_run --algo=tane --data=<dataset_name>.csv
  ```

  The `<dataset_name>.csv`, which is a user-provided dataset, should be placed in the `/path/to/Desbordante/build/target` directory.

* ### Windows
  The following instructions were tested on Windows 10 .
  #### Dependencies
  Prior to cloning the repository and attempting to build the project, ensure that you have the following software:

  - Microsoft Visual Studio 2019
  - CMake, version 3.13+
  - Boost library, version 1.65.1+ \
    The recommended way to install Boost is by using [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/)

  #### Building the project
  Firstly, launch the command prompt and navigate to a desired directory.
  Then, clone the repository, cd into the project directory and launch the build script:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/Mstrutov/Desbordante/
  cd Desbordante
  git checkout windows-compatible
  build.bat
  ```
  *Note:* to compile the project, the script uses hard-coded path to MSVC developer command prompt, which is located
  by default at `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\Common7\Tools\VsDevCmd.bat`.
  You should change the path in the script if it differs from the default one.
  #### Launching the binaries
  The script generates the following file structure in `\path\to\Desbordante\build\target`:
  ```bash
  ├───inputData
  │   └───some-sample-csv's.csv
  ├───Desbordante_test.exe
  ├───Desbordante_run.exe
  ```
  The `inputData` directory contains several .csv files that may be used by `Desbordante_test`. Run `Desbordante_test` to perform unit testing:
  ```
  cd build\target
  Desbordante_test.exe
  ```
  The tool itself is launched via the following line:
  ```
  Desbordante_run.exe --algo=tane --data=<dataset_name>.csv
  ```

  The `<dataset_name>.csv`, which is a user-provided dataset, should be placed in the `\path\to\Desbordante\build\target` directory.

## Installation (with web application)

Currently, you can build this part of the project only on the operating system Ubuntu. 
The following instructions were tested on Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS.

The web application requires the following components:
1) DBMS
2) Message Broker
3) Web-Client and Web-Server
4) Consumer (for Message Broker)

* ### DBMS
  You need to install `PostgreSQL`.

  After installation, do the following steps:
  - Create a PostgreSQL role with ability to create databases. You can achive this by executing the following commands:
  ```
  sudo -i -u postgres
  psql postgres
  $ CREATE USER your_username WITH CREATEDB ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your_password'
  $ ALTER USER your_username WITH PASSWORD 'your_password'
  ```
  - Make changes to the appropriate config files (`/path/to/Desbordante/web-app/server/.env` and `/path/to/Desbordante/cfg/db_config.json`)

* ### Message Broker
  You need to install `docker-compose` and run message broker:
  ```
  sudo apt-get install docker-compose
  ```

  After installation, write the following lines:
  ```
  cd web-app/kafka-server
  sudo docker-compose up
  ```

* ### Web-Client and Web-Server
  Firstly, you need to install package manager `yarn`:
  ```
  sudo apt install yarnpkg
  ```
  Then you need to install all dependencies for web-server and web-client:
  
  ```
  cd web-app/server
  yarnpkg
  cd ../client
  yarnpkg
  ```
* ### Consumer
Ensure that you have installed the dependencies required to build the program without a web application. Then you need to install the following dependencies:

  - libpqxx:
  ```
  sudo apt-get install libpqxx-dev
  ```
  - librdkafka:
  ```
  sudo apt-get install librdkafka-dev
  ```
  - cppKafka:
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/mfontanini/cppkafka.git
  cd cppkafka
  mkdir build
  cd build
  cmake ..
  make
  sudo make install
  ```
#### Building
  Cd into the project directory and launch the build script with the flag to build the consumer:
  ```
  cd Desbordante
  ./build.sh -c
  ```
  The script generates the following file structure in `/path/to/Desbordante/build/target`:
  ```bash
  ├───...
  ├───Desbordante_kafka_consumer
  ```
* ### Launching the web application
  Firstly, you need to run kafka server:
  ```
  cd web-app/kafka-server
  sudo docker-compose up
  ```
  Note: if an error occurred while trying to start the server, then enter 
  ```
  sudo docker-compose down
  ```
  Secondly, you need to run web-server:
  ```
  cd web-app/server
  yarnpkg build
  yarnpkg start
  ```
  The command `yarnpkg build` is needed only for the first launch web-server.

  Next, you need to run web-client:
  ```
  cd web-app/client
  yarnpkg start
  ```
  Then, it remains to start the consumer:
  ```
  cd build/target
  ./Desbordante_kafka_consumer
  ```
# Developers

Kirill Stupakov     &mdash; Client side of the web application

Anton Chizhov       &mdash; Server side of the web application

Alexandr Smirnov    &mdash; DFD implementation

Ilya Shchuckin      &mdash; FD_Mine implementation

Michael Polyntsov   &mdash; FastFDs implementation

Ilya Vologin        &mdash; core classes

Maxim Strutovsky    &mdash; team lead, Pyro & TANE implementation

Nikita Bobrov       &mdash; product owner, consult, papers

Kirill Smirnov      &mdash; product owner, code quality, infrastructure, consult

George Chernishev   &mdash; product owner, consult, papers

# Cite

If you use this software for research, please cite the paper (https://fruct.org/publications/fruct29/files/Strut.pdf, https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9435469) as follows:

M. Strutovskiy, N. Bobrov, K. Smirnov and G. Chernishev, "Desbordante: a Framework for Exploring Limits of Dependency Discovery Algorithms," 2021 29th Conference of Open Innovations Association (FRUCT), 2021, pp. 344-354, doi: 10.23919/FRUCT52173.2021.9435469.

# Contacts

[Email me at strutovsky.m.a@gmail.com](mailto:strutovsky.m.a@gmail.com)
